rebalance/README.md, before:

# Rebalance plugin

This plugin moves liquidity between your channels using circular payments:


## Installation

For general plugin installation instructions see the repos main
[README.md](https://github.com/lightningd/plugins/blob/master/README.md#Installation)


## Usage

Once the plugin is installed and active, you can use the `lightning-cli` to
rebalance channels like this:

```
lightning-cli rebalance outgoing_scid incoming_scid [msatoshi] [maxfeepercent] [retry_for] [exemptfee]
```

### Parameters

 - The `outgoing_scid` is the short_channel_id of the sending channel,
 - The `incoming_scid` is the short_channel_id of the receiving channel.
 - OPTIONAL: The `msatoshi` parameter sets the amount in milli-satoshis to be
   transferred. If the parameter is left out, the plugin will calucate an amount
   that will balance the channels 50%/50%. The parameter can also be given in
   other denominations by appending i.e. '10000sat' or '0.01btc'.
 - OPTIONAL: `maxfeepercent` is a perecentage limit of the money to be paid in
   fees and defaults to 0.5.
 - OPTIONAL: `retry_for` defines the number of seconds the plugin will retry to
   find a suitable route. Default: 60 seconds.
 - OPTIONAL: The `exemptfee` option can be used for tiny payments which would be
   dominated by the fee leveraged by forwarding nodes. Setting `exemptfee`
   allows the `maxfeepercent` check to be skipped on fees that are smaller than
   exemptfee (default: 5000 millisatoshi).


## Tips and Tricks

- To find the correct channel IDs, you can use the `summary` plugin which can
  be found [here](https://github.com/lightningd/plugins/tree/master/summary).
- The ideal amount is not too big, but not too small: it is difficult to find a
  route for a big payment, however some node refuses to forward too small
  amounts (i.e. less than a thousand msatoshi).
- After some failed attempts, may worth checking the `lightningd` logs for
  further information.
- Channels have a `channel_reserve_satoshis` value, which is usually 1% of the
  channel's total balance. Initially, this reserve may not be met, as only one
  side has funds; but the protocol ensures that there is always progress toward
  meeting this reserve, and once met, [it is maintained.](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md#rationale)
  Therefore you cannot rebalance a channel to be completely empty or full.

Commit message:

doc: cleanup and key-value for optional parameters

rebalance/README.md, after:

# Rebalance plugin

This plugin moves liquidity between your channels using circular payments:


## Installation

For general plugin installation instructions see the repos main
[README.md](https://github.com/lightningd/plugins/blob/master/README.md#Installation)


## Usage

Once the plugin is installed and active, you can use the `lightning-cli` to
rebalance channels like this:

```
lightning-cli rebalance outgoing_scid incoming_scid [msatoshi] [maxfeepercent] [retry_for] [exemptfee]
```

If you want to skip/default certain optional parameters but use others, you can
use always the `lightning-cli -k` (key=value) syntax like this:

```bash
lightning-cli rebalance -k outgoing_scid=1514942x51x0 incoming_scid=1515133x10x0 maxfeepercent=1
```

### Parameters

- The `outgoing_scid` is the short_channel_id of the sending channel,
- The `incoming_scid` is the short_channel_id of the receiving channel.
- OPTIONAL: The `msatoshi` parameter sets the amount in milli-satoshis to be
  transferred. If the parameter is left out, the plugin will calucate an amount
  that will balance the channels 50%/50%. The parameter can also be given in
  other denominations by appending i.e. '1000000sat', '0.01btc' or '10mbtc'.
- OPTIONAL: `maxfeepercent` is a perecentage limit of the money to be paid in
  fees and defaults to 0.5.
- OPTIONAL: `retry_for` defines the number of seconds the plugin will retry to
  find a suitable route. Default: 60 seconds.
- OPTIONAL: The `exemptfee` option can be used for tiny payments which would be
  dominated by the fee leveraged by forwarding nodes. Setting `exemptfee`
  allows the `maxfeepercent` check to be skipped on fees that are smaller than
  exemptfee (default: 5000 millisatoshi).


## Tips and Tricks

- To find the correct channel IDs, you can use the `summary` plugin which can
  be found [here](https://github.com/lightningd/plugins/tree/master/summary).
- The ideal amount is not too big, but not too small: it is difficult to find a
  route for a big payment, however some node refuses to forward too small
  amounts (i.e. less than a thousand msatoshi).
- After some failed attempts, may worth checking the `lightningd` logs for
  further information.
- Channels have a `channel_reserve_satoshis` value, which is usually 1% of the
  channel's total balance. Initially, this reserve may not be met, as only one
  side has funds; but the protocol ensures that there is always progress toward
  meeting this reserve, and once met, [it is maintained.](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md#rationale)
  Therefore you cannot rebalance a channel to be completely empty or full.
